Let’s Play! |

Rules Introduction for 2038: Tycoons of the Asteroid Belt

Read this First

In 2038, 3-6 tycoons compete to carn money and build the best stock
portfolio by investing in companies to explore and mine the asteroid belt.
§ Learning to play 2038:

Tf you learn best “by doing”, read this sheet as you play out a Short
Game. Refer to the full rules should problems arise. If you learn best by
reading, skim this sheet and then read the full rules before starting play.
The Short Game lasts 2-3 hours, once players are familiar with it. New
Players may find it takes 3-5 hours to play the very first time. The Full
Game’s length varies with a group’s playing style. Experienced players
complete it in 5-9 hours. Newer players should allow more time.

2038 is loosely derived from the railroad game 1829, with stock rounds
surrounding company operations. Players familiar with it will find 2038
rather different. Companies explore, mine and deliver ores (see Figures
6, 8 & 9), instead of laying track to connect cities. Growth Corporations
(see page 3) are also new. Page 4 lists many fine points to remember.
Setup. Perform the following steps (see Figures 1 and 2):

1. Mix one bid counter per player and draw to determine First Player
and seating order. Hand out the First Player card and bid counters.

2. Unfold the board, placing the Round and Phase chits and spaceships
on it. Nearby, place the stock mat, bank and 10% stock shares. Put
the Astervid League and 20% President certificates on the stock mat.

3. Split $1,800 evenly among the players. If playing a Short Game,
remove $6,000 and 2 Phase II ships from the game.

4. Mix the asteroid tiles in the box lid asteroid side down. Set the lid,
Company / Corporation mats and counters aside for later use.

5. Lay out the 12 Private and Independent Company certificates in
order (“0"—“11"), along with the associated TS] shares and Probe.
Overview. Players are investors. The goal is to be the player with the

most money (in stock and cash) at the game end. Each turn consists of:

1. A stock trading round (when investors act).

2. Two operating rounds (when Companies / active Corporations act).
This cycle repeats until the bank runs out of money and the game ends.
Earnings are produced during operating rounds by spaceships picking up
and delivering ores from asteroid mines to bases or transshipment points.
There are three types of business entitics in the game:

¢ Private Companies. Until removed, Private COs pay income to their
owners each operating round. They do not trade on the stock market
and, except when Co. “10” runs the Prabe, never operate spaceships.
Independent Companies. These buy and operate spaceships but are
not traded on the stock market. Instead, each Independent either
retains all of its earnings or splits them evenly with its owner.
Corporations. Each Corporation buys and operates spaceships but is
jointly owned by shareholders, who buy and scll its shares, affecting
its stock price. Each Corporation has a President, the player owning
the most stock in it, who directs it during Operating Rounds and can
increase its stock price by paying out its earnings as dividends.

§ Important: Each Independent Co. and Corporation has a treasury.
Money in it is always kept separate from its owncr’s / President’s cash.
Initial Auction. Play begins with players bidding for and buying the 12
Private and Independent Companies. Each player, starting with the First
Player and proceeding clockwise, either places a bid, passes or buys the
lowest numbered certificate available (see Figure 2). A purchase may
trigger auctions or purchases due to previously placed “pending” bids.
To place a bid, the player puts a bid marker on the desired certificate and
sets aside the amount named. This must equal or exceed the certificate’s
printed bid value and be at least $5 greater than the last bid placed on it.
Money set aside for a bid is allocated and cannot be spent until that
certificate is either bought or has a higher bid placed on it.

When a certificate is bought, the next one becomes available. If it has
only one bid marker on it, it is sold to that player for the amount bid. If
several bid counters are present, an auction is held among those players.
Proceeding clockwise from the player with the highest pending bid, each
player must either bid at least $5 more than the previous bid or drop out.
The last player remaining buys the certificate. Note that several certifi-
cates in succession might be sold in this manner (see Figure 3). Once a
certificate with no pending bids becomes available, the next player (on
the original buyer’s left) then takes a turn (buy, bid or pass) normally.
As each Independent Co. is purchased, put $100 plus '/: of the amount, if
any, over $100 for which it was bought (round down) into its treasury.

e

10% Shares
UUUL OO
|

Board

Player money
= ued & bid markers

dependent COs

General Setup (takes up |

850hid (Q) ; .
Planetary ——— Private Co. “O
Imports
$100 bid (4)] [Sioobid (2) [Sioobid (B) | Sioobid )) [aon | | stooia
| Fast Ice Drill__ Ore . “
Buck Finder Houn Bid] Crusher Torch Lucky
Bid Bid a2 I
a) #4 Independent Companies “1”-“6” —
SIDbid (Z| S140bid (B)] | Si6Obid (Q)| | Si8Oid AO) | SisObid 43
Tunnel Vacuum Robot Space | | Asteroid
Systems |{Associates|,| Smelters — Trans. C | Export Co.

‘SI
1 Share 1Share || 1 Share Presi¢ent

oN 4/0 Probe
Private Companies “7"-“11”

Shown above is the layout of the 12 Private and Independent Companies.
COs “7-10” come with TSI shares. Each of these is bid for and bought
as a set; afterwards these certificates function completely separate from
each other. Company “11”, the Asteroid Export Co., forms the Asteroid
League in either Phase III or IV, receiving its President’s certificate then.
In a 4-player game, Player 1 bids $100 on Fast Buck. Player 2 bids $120
on Drill Hound (to put $10 extra into its treasury). Player 3 bids $100 on
Lucky. Player 4 bids $110 on Fast Buck, putting pressure on Player 1...

§ Playing Tip: During the initial auction, make sure you get at least one
Independent Company (unless, possibly, you’re the TSI President in a
six player game). When bidding on Independents, consider bidding $120
or so since an extra $10 in the Company treasury can often prove useful.

ure 2: Initial Company La

Bought by

$30 bid (0)
Planetary Player 1
Imports |

GQ) | $100hid (4) | $100bid (GY) | s100bia
Ore
Crusher Torch Lucky
$120bid (7)] | Si40bid (B)] Sl60bid (Q)] | $180bid GO] | s180bid 1)
Tunnel Vacuum Robot raiqq | Asteroid
i Si
: =F

1 Share 1 Share 1 Share resident |

470 PTODEe

Later in the bidding, Player 1 buys Company “0” for $50. Players 1 and
4 then hold an auction for Fast Buck, Player 4 eventually buying it for
$160 ($130 goes into Fast Buck’s treasury). Ice Finder and Drill Hound
have pending bids on them and are sold to players 4 and 2. Player 2 may
then purchase Ore Crusher, pass or place a bid on another company.

TSI is a Public Corporation. TSI becomes active once 50% of its shares
are held by players. This occurs when Private COs “7’—“10” have been
bought. 7S/’s President takes its mat and counters, placing the Probe on
the mat and TSI’s stock price and par value markers in the appropriate
boxes of the stock chart: either $100 (Full Game) or $67 (Short Game).
Put 10 times the par value ($1,000 or $670) into TS/’s treasury.
Once all 12 initial companies have been bought, the auction is over. The
five remaining TS/ shares become available at TS/’s par value. (The RU
President’s ificate is also available but is rarely bought.) Each player
either TSI share or passes (no sales are allowed in the first stock
round) e player obtains more TS/ shares than its President has, then
that player becomes President and swaps two shares for the President’s
certificate. e stock round ends once all p pass in succession.
Move TS/'s stock price up one space if play m all of its shares.
If all players consecutively pass — thus € he first stock round —
before the initial 12 companies are olve all pending bids as if
those certificates, in order, had beco able for purchase.
In either case, give the First Player card to the player on the left of the
last player who made a non-pending purchase.
Operating Rounds. Perform the following steps in sequence twice
(once for each operating round) before starting the next stock round:

I. Pay each Private Co.’s owner (and Fast Buck’s treasury) its income

r)

a.-Fly-spaceship routes, picking up

b. Determine withholdings / divider Adj t

c. Purchases (including new spaceships and claims).

3. Remove Usep MINE markers placed earlier that round.

Spaceships. Earnings are produced by using spaceships to deliver ores.
Each spaceship has two numbers: its movement points and number of
cargo holds (see Figure 4). The first dictates how many hexes it may
travel each round, starting from any of its bases; the second, how many
cargo pickups / deli t may make. Initially, only Phase I spaceships
are available: the be bought from bank. There are two types
available: 5/1 and 3/2 Tugs. One
fixed. Note that types have the same pri
Operations: Each spaceship is moved separa
point to enter each hex. An unexplored hex 1 y
ing an extra movement point to draw and place an a i ini
each hex explored, the “Survey Board” (the bank) pays $10 u
owning Company’s or Corporation’s treasury. Asteroids contai
one or two mines. Each mine produces a type of ore, either N
Ice (1) or Rare (R), in a grade worth a given amount (see Figure 5).
During the first operating round, since the Independents don’t begin play
owning any spaceships, their first round action will be to each purchase
one. TS/ then operates the Probe (collecting its exploration payments)
before moving its stock marker left one box since it has zero earnings.
TS/ then buys up to 3 more spaceships and 2 claims (see below), placing
them on mines that the Probe found. Note: If TS/ is not active, then the
owner of the Space Transportation Co. (“10”) flies the Probe from the
TSI base with the owner collecting the Probe’s exploration payments.
Each round, only one pickup may be made at each unclaimed mine (by
the first spaceship to do so). Place a USED MINE chit to mark this. The
pickup is worth the lower of the mine’s two values. If an Independent
Co. or Corporation buys and places a claim on a mine, then only its
spaceships may make pickups there. Furthermore, that ore is now worth
the mine’s higher value. Pickup values are earned by spaceships only if
they end their movement at any base or a red transshipment point (a ship
that is only exploring may end its route in space). A spaceship ending its
route at a transshipment point with an empty cargo hold earns the lower
value listed there ($20 or $30). Note that some Companies and
Corporations earn bonuses for delivering certain ores; bonuses can also
be carned by any ship for delivering ores to certain bases (see Figure 6).
A Company or Corporation’s earnings are the total of all its spaceships’
routes (but not its exploration payments). An Independent may cither
keep all of its earnings or split them evenly with its owner. It may not
choose to pay them all out. A Corporation may either retain its earnings
or pay out dividends, either in the amount of '/2 its earnings or in full.
This decision affects its stock price, moving it one box left, one box right
or two boxes right (see Figure 7). ‘Treasury money may then be spent to
buy more spaceships or claims (within certain limits, see charts).
During the next operating round, the remaining Phase I ships and a Phase
II ship might be bought. This triggers the start of Phase II immediately.

Hold the initial auction and play through the first stock and
operating rounds before reading on (unless Phase II begins).

, Phase removed
| Obsolete: Phase III (1) from the game. Phase rion
I
Obsolete: Phase III or)
5/1 $100 |
| | |
| |
Cargo Holds Price $100
Movement

Asteroid with

Two Mines
Mine
Asteroid with
Ore Type One Mine
Unclaimed Claimed
Mine Value
—
i,
30/60 /,10/50/ })
—_,. {a i
A m SN
LE « USED
BSE MINE
{NO REFUEL SLOT)
+10/NicKEL ea
Delivered ees
CRUSHER a
~ & ~ Pa
Sg al Si

In the first operating round (OR 1), Ore Crusher buys a 5/1 Scout. In
OR 2, the 5/1 moves to hex A and spends a second movement point to
explore it, drawing the tile shown. Deciding not to make a pickup at
either of these mines, the 5/1 moves to hex B and explores it, drawing a
$20 Nickel mine and adding $20 to Ore Crusher’s treasury for the two
explorations. The 5/1 makes a pickup there, placing a USED MINE chit,
before spending its fifth and final movement point to reach the Lunar
Enterprises basc for $40 ($20 ore plus the base and Ore Crusher bonuses
for delivering Nickel ore).

This $40 could be split $20-$20 between Ore Crusher’s treasury and its
owner or fully retained. The owner chooses to retain the $40 in treasury
and spends it, plus the $20 exploration payments, to claim the $20
Nickel mine. In OR 3, after a stock round, the 5/1 will run again (from
Ore Crusher’s base), exploring hex C (+510 treasury) before delivering
ore from the claimed Nickel mine to the Lunar Enterprises base for $80.

~

OR1]68 [77 [87 |98 OR2 Jeg 177 [87 [98
67 |76 |86 59 167 86
58 |66 175 51 [58 |66 175

In OR 1 of the short game, TS/ has no earnings (exploration payments
don’t count) and its stock price slides left one space to $59. In OR 2,
TSI has $170 earnings and pays out $17 per share, moving its stock price
right two spaces to $76. Had TS/ instead paid out */2, it would have kept
$80, paid $9 per share and moved its stock price right one space to $67.

Phase II begins immediately when a Phase II ship is purchased:
* The TSI Probe becomes obsolete and is removed from the game.
* Companies and Corporations may buy spaceships from one another
for any mutually agreeable price, at least $1.
¢ Growth Corporations may now be launched during stock rounds.
¢ Private Companies “0” and “7”—“9” may be bought by Corporations
from players for at least $1 and no more than their printed bid values.
Once held by Corporations, Private Companies “7’—“9” may be used
to each place one extra black-edged counter (see Figure 8).
* Corporations may buy Independent claims for $60 each, replacing
them with their own and returning the Independents’ claims for reuse.
° Corporations may buy and place bases and refueling stations.
A refueling station adds 3 movement points to each of its Corporation’s
ships that enters that hex (or refuels a ship back to its starting movement
amount, whichever total is smaller). Only one refueling station may be
placed per base; thus a base provides both an alternative starting point
for routes and a single refueling station “slot” usable by any Corporation
(whichever one places a station there first). Bases, refueling stations and
claims must be placed within range of an existing base (see Rules 7.4).

Stock Rounds. During stock rounds, players may both sell and buy
stock shares in Corporations, possibly launching new ones. Each player,
starting with the First Player and proceeding clockwise, may sell as
many shares as desired (within certain limits) into the Stock Market and
then may purchase one certificate. Shares are bought from the Public or
Growth boxes at their par value. They are sold to and bought from the
Stock Market for their current stock price.

A Corporation’s stock price moves down one square (if possible) when
ils shares are sold, even when several of its shares are sold at once. A
Corporation’s Presidency is transferred between players (swapping stock
certificates) if one player acquires more shares in a Corporation than its
President has. Shares in a Corporation which hasn’t operated may only
be sold by its President. Neither the President’s certificate nor more than
50% of a Corporation’s shares may enter the Stock Market. A player
may not buy a stock he or she previously sold that stock round nor buy
more than 60% of a Corporation’s shares. A stock round ends once all
players pass in succession. Give the First Player card to the player left
of the last player who made a stock transaction. Move the stock price of
any stock completely held by players up one square (if possible).
Corporations. Corporations become available in several groups, whose
members may be launched in any order. Group “C” is not available in
the Short Game. There are two Corporation types: Public and Growth.
They differ in how they are launched, become active, their starting capi-
tal, initial stock price and whether they receive money for their unbought
shares when they pay dividends (as they do for their shares in the Stock
Market). Growth Corporations get this money; Public ones do not.

To launch a Public Corporation, a player sets its initial stock price and
par value ($67, 77, 88 or 100) and buys an available President’s certifi-
cate for twice this amount. Place its 10% shares in the Public share box.

To launch a Growth Corporation, the owner of an Independent swaps it
for an available President's 20% certificate during a stock turn in Phascs
II or II, before the Asteroid League forms. This counts as that player’s
stock purchase that turn. Place its 10% shares in the Growth share box.
A Public Corporation becomes active once 50% of its stock has been
bought; it then receives 10 times its par value as its starting capital.

A Growth Corporation is active immediately. Its initial stock value is
$10. It begins with its Independent’s spaceship(s) and treasury but
receives additional capital only as its 10% shares are bought at its $67
par value. Replace (for free) the Independent’s base and placed claims
with its GROWTH base and claims. Flip the Independent certificate to its
pilot side; its bonuses now only apply to one spaceship. Move one
Asteroid League share from the trade-in box to the Asteroid League box.

stor] Continue play until Phase III begins before reading further.

As spaceships are bought, the game will enter new phases with various
effects (see charts). Phase I-III ships eventually become obsolete and
are removed from the game. Corporations without a ship must buy onc.
(After the Asteroid League forms, Independents without a ship must buy
one or join the League.) If a Corporation doesn’t have sufficient cash to
buy a spaceship, its President must make up the difference with his or
her own cash, possibly selling stock to obtain it (see 7.38). Thus. being
President of a Corporation can become a liability (see Player Notes).

Also triggered by phase changes is the formation of the Asteroid League,
a Corporation which eventually absorbs all Independents that don’t form
Growth Corporations. The Asteroid Export Co. owner may form the
Astervid League when Phase III begins (and must do so in Phase IV).

e Hy 3/2

“NS
TSI buys Private Co. #7 for $120 and uses its special property to place its
black-edged base marker in hex A (which was explored earlier), after
flipping the asteroid tile there to its base side B. TS/ then spends $50 to
place a refueling station there. Later, its 3/2 spaceship can pickup up ICE

$100

Me +20/RARE
MQ Deliverea

.
Se

refueling
LAY station

+10 / NICKEL
meg Delivered

a a

3/2 $100

TST has 6 placed claims and is taking RARE to the VP base and NICKEL to
the LE base using 4 ships with 8 cargo holds, a 5/1, 3/2, 6/2 and 4/3.
The 3/2 flies first (using the TS/ refueling station to reach the LE base),
flipping over claims A and B and placing 2 $60 NICKEL ore counters on
its card. The 5/1 flies next, picking up at C, refueling and exploring D,
finding a RARE $30, before arriving at VP. The 6/2 picks up at E,
explores F, refuels, picks up the $30 RARE at D and ends at VP. The 4/3
picks up at G, H and F, refuels and ends at LE. $20 for two explorations
goes into TSI’s treasury. TS/’s earnings (with base bonuses) are $280 N
+ $40 1 + $220 R = $540 (or $54/ share if TST pays out full dividends).

§ Playing Tip: To find good routes quickly and speed play, assign your
claims to holds and fly fully loaded ships first, conducting exploration.
exploration first.

Short Game Rules Summary

The Short Game uses all the Full Game rules except the following:
Remove $6,000 and 2 Phase II spaceships from the game.

TSI’s initial stock and par value is $67, not $100; TS/ receives
$670 initial capital, not $1,000.

The two group “C” Corporations, the Outer Planet Consortium
and the Ring Construction Corp., are not used.

The certificate limits are reduced (see chart).

Independent owners receive */2 of their cash-on-hand only if they
join the Asteroid League when it first forms (regardless of
whether they still possess a spaceship if they join later).

§ Playing Tip: The Short Game usually ends during Phase UI.
Note that Independents, as per the normal rules, are worth nothing
towards a player’s final value (unlike Private Companies). Thus,
joining the Asteroid League when it first forms is usually wise.

Each Independent may then join it (and must join in Phase V). Its owner
receives */2 its treasury if it joins when the League first forms (or, in the
Full Game, if it owns a ship if it joins later), plus a 10% League share.
As players become wealthier, their ability to purchase more stock will be
restricted by the certificate limit (see chart) which they may not exceed.
Both Independent and Private Companies count towards this limit.

The game ends when a player goes bankrupt (by not being able to buy a
required spaceship for a Corporation, see 7.38) or, more typically, at the
end of the round sequence (stock plus two operating rounds) during
which the Bank runs out of money. (For these final rounds, players may
either “spreadsheet” payments (see Figure 10) or give an equal amount
of money to the Bank so it can continue to pay out.) The player with the
most money in stock plus cash-on-hand wins! Cash held in treasuries
does not count towards this total; Private Companies still held by play-
ers (if the game ends before Phase V) are worth their printed bid values.

OR Div. Player 1 Player 2 Player 3
Corp 1 2 Stock Sum #Shrs Amt #Shrs Amt #Shrs Amt
TSI 53 53 440 546 5 2730 2 1092 2 1092

RU 77 79 243 396 - - 3 1188 6 2376
VP 48 48 264 360 1 360 5 1800 4 1440
RCC 63 67 185 315 3 945 - - 3 945
Cash on hand 2140 2324 912

Final Total 9345 8868 7635

Track each Corporation’s dividend per share on paper. Add them to its
final stock value. Multiply this by each player’s # of shares. Total these
amounts, plus cash on hand, to determine each player’s final standing.

Points to Remember (“18xx’” players take note)

Setup: All 13 bases printed on the map start the game in play.
Initial Auction:

* The minimum bid on a certificate is its printed bid value.

* Money bid is allocated and may not be spent or used for other bids
until a higher bid is placed on that certificate.

* If all players consecutively pass to end the stock round before the
first 12 Companies are bought, resolve any pending bids in order.

* The amount placed in an Independent's treasury is $100 plus 1/2 of
the amount above $100 paid (round fractions down).

Stock Rounds:

¢ All sales are done before the one allowed purchase per turn.

¢ Neither the President’s certificate nor more than 50% of a
Corporation’s stock may be sold into the Stock Market.

* Selling multiple shares of one Corporation’s stock in a single
player turn depresses its stock price only one box.

* Only the President may sell shares in a Corporation before it has
operated during at least one operating round.

* A player may not buy a stock that he or she sold previously that
round; nor buy (or hold) more than 60% of a Corporation’s stock;
nor buy (or hold) stock in excess of the certificate limit (see chart).

Forming Corporations:

* A Corporation is launched once its President’s certificate (only) is
acquired during a stock round. Another Corporation (whether the
first one is active or not) may then he launched by the next player.

* Corporations become available for launching in groups. Once all
of a group is launched, the next group is immediately available.

* Launching a Growth Corporation (in Phases II and III before the
Astervid League forms) counts as that player’s one stock purchase.

* A Public Corp. becomes active, recciving 10 x its par value cash,
once 50% of its stock is bought. A Growth Corp. is active at once.

Operations:

* There are two operating rounds per stock round.

¢ Fast Buck’s income of $15 per round goes into its treasury.

* Independents operate in numeric order before active Corporations
operate in stock price order.

° A spaceship’s route always starts at one of its bases. It must end at
any base (or transshipment point) for its pickups to earn money.

* It costs one extra movement point to explore a hex, placing a tile
and adding $10 to the Company or Corporation’s treasury.

* A refueling station may be used once per operating round by any
ship belonging to that Corporation that enters its hex. Each ship
gains three movement points (limited by its starting movement).
One pickup may be made at a mine per round. Only the owning
Company or Corporation may make a pickup at a claimed mine,
earning its higher value. Making both pickups al an asteroid with
two mines uses two cargo holds but no extra movement.

Ore bonuses from a base may be earned by a spaceship of any
Company or Corporation that ends its route there.

The bonus for ending a route at a transshipment point requires an
empty cargo hold. It may be earned once per ship per round.

An Independent’s earnings may either be split cvenly between its
owner and its treasury or retained completely within its treasury.
Corporate earnings may be paid out in full, in half (round down the
half retained by $10) or retained. Adjust its stock price marker
right two spaces, right one space or left one space respectively.

¢ A Corporation paying dividends receives them for its shares in the
Stock Market, Growth box or Asteroid League Trade-in box.

Purchases:

° There are two types of Phase I-V spaceships. A spaceship’s type
may not be altered after being purchased from the bank.
After the first Phase V ship is bought, Phase VI spaceships become
available. In Phases V and VI, a Phase III-V spaceship may be
upgraded to a Phase VI ship for $700, removing the old ship card.
After Phase I, Corporations and Companies may buy spaceships
from each other at any agreed upon price, $1 or higher.
The Asteroid League’s last spaceship may not be purchased.
* A Corporation (only) must buy a spaceship if it has none. If it
doesn’t have sufficient cash to do so, it must buy the earliest ship
available (of either type) from the bank. Its President supplies the
needed cash; raising it if necessary by selling shares normally,
except that its sales may not transfer this Presidency (see 7.38).
Corporations may buy Private Companies “0” and “7”—“9” from
players (with their consent) after Phase I, paying at least $1 and no
more than the printed bid value of each Company.
Private Companies “7°—“9” each permit an owning Corporation to
place one extra (black-edged) counter on the map. Doing so does
not shut down that Private Company.
After Phase I, a Corporation may buy an Independent’s claims for
$60 apiece (with its owner’s consent).
Each round, a Corporation may buy a base and a refueling station
(after Phase I) and two claims (three if the Asteroid League), plac-
ing them within range of any of its bases (see 7.4), in addition to
any Independent claims purchased or Private Co. counters placed.
Bases may only be placed in explored tiles without claims, flipping
the asteroid tile there over to its gray base tile side. Claims may be
placed on mines that were used earlier that round.
Game Phases / Asteroid League:

* There are six game phases. New phase effects occur immediately
once a spaceship of that phase is purchased.
The Asteroid League may be formed when Phase III begins. If the
owner of the Asteroid Export Co. chooses not to form the League
then, he or she may form it before the start of any Phase III Stock
or Operating Round. It must be formed when Phase IV begins.
Independents may choose to merge into the Asteroid League when
it forms. The League gets its base, claims, spaceships and 1/2 its
treasury (round down), with its owner getting the rest and a 10%
Asteroid League share. If an Independent chooses to join later, its
owner receives money when it joins only in the Full Game and
only if it still has a ship. It may join at the start of each Operating
(but not Stock) Round. Independents must join the League upon
failing to purchase a spaceship (see 7.39) or when Phase V begins.
The Asteroid League starts with $250 initial capital, receiving
extra capital as Independents join and as its shares are bought.
Ending the Game / Winning:

* The game ends either when a player goes bankrupt (due to not
being able to purchase a required spaceship for a Corporation) or,
more typically, at the end of the round sequence — stock plus two
operating rounds — during which the Bank ran out of money.

* The winner is the player with the highest stock value (counting
any Private Companies left at bid value), plus cash-on-hand.

Etiquette: All player and treasury monies are open for examination.
Rounding Rule: The treasury always gets the smaller amount.

.

2038

TYCOONS OF THE ASTEROID BELT
Rules of Play and Reference
1. INTRODUCTION

2038 is a game of stock manipulation, space exploration and mining for
3-6 players, ages 14 to adult. Players invest in and direct companies to
explore and mine the asteroid belt. Each turn consists of two parts: a
stock trading round followed by two operating rounds, during which
corporations conduct exploration and mining activities and possibly pay
dividends to their shareholders. The game ends when the bank runs out
of money. The winner is the player with the highest net worth as deter-
mined by stock portfolio value plus cash on hand.

§ Learning to play 2038:

If you learn best “by doing”, read the “Let's Play!” sheet as you play a
Short Game. Refer to the full rules, below, should problems arise. If you
learn best by reading first, skim the “Let’s Play!” sheet before reading
the full rules, referring back to its examples of play as needed.

2. COMPONENTS AND CONCEPTS

A complete copy of 2038 includes:
* 16" by 22" game board
° 11" by 16" stock mat
¢ 236 die cut counters (1 sheet)
¢ 106 die cut hexagonal tiles (2 sheets)
¢ 72 Corporate Stock Certificates
¢ 12 Certificates representing Private and Independent Companies
¢ 41 Spaceship cards (Note: 2 Phase VI ships are printed on the reverse
of other certificates: Private Co. “0” and the T'SJ Probe.)
* 8 Corporation mats
* 6 Independent Company mats
¢ 2 play summary cards
* 1 packet of play money containing $10,000 in denominations of:
8 x $500, 35 x $100, 28 x $50, 30 x $20, 30 x $10, 28 x $5, 60 x SI
* | card used to denote the First Player for stock rounds
¢ 1 four-page Let’s Play! rules introduction sheet
* | four-page Player and Design Notes & Charts
¢ 1 four-page rules folder (what you’re reading)
If any items are damaged or missing, please write:
Prism / TimJim Games
Attn; 2038
P.O. Box 60141
Palo Alto, CA 94306-0141

2.1 Board

The board depicts part of the asteroid belt, viewed [rom above the solar
plane. It is divided into hexes, each containing a transshipment point,
base location or, after exploration, an asteroid with one or two mines.
Important: All 13 bases printed on the map begin the game in play.

2.2 Tiles

The 106 tiles are used differently depending on which side is face up:

* As asteroids. When an empty map hex is explored, a tile is chosen
randomly and placed asteroid side face up. Each asteroid contains either
one or two mines. Each mine has an ore type, either N (nickel), I (ice) or
R (rare), and two values representing the amounts carned for delivering
ore from that mine. The first value is the mine’s initial unclaimed value;
the second, higher number is its improved value after being claimed.

Asteroid with
Two Mines Ss ois

Mine

Asteroid with
Ore Type One Mine R N
Unclaimed Claimed 30/60 /\ 20/60
Mine Value Mine Value Vis

* As base tiles. When placing a base marker, flip the asteroid tile over
to its gray side. Each base tile may hold one Refueling Station marker.

2.3 Spaceships
Each spaceship has two numbers:

* Movement Points. The number
of hexes a spaceship may enter
while operating (its range). A
spaceship exploring a hex expends
an extra movement point to place

Obsolete: Phase Ill

an asteroid tile on the mapboard. 3/2 $100
¢ Cargo Holds. The maximum Cargo a
number of mine pickups a space- Nlovenient '

ship may make when operating.
In addition, each spaceship has a price, a phase number showing when it
centers play, and either an indication that is a permanent spaceship or the
phase in which it becomes obsolete and is removed from the game.

2.4 Counters
Four types of counters, plus round and phase markers, are provided:

* Bid markers (22). These are used to mark pending bids by different
players during the initial auction of Private and Independent Companies.

¢ UseD MINE chits (22, backprinted on the bid markers). Use these to
mark pickups at unclaimed mines during an operating round.

* Corporation counters (164). Stock markers, bases, refueling stations
and mining claims for each Company or Corporation in the game. The
black-edged Corporation bases, refueling stations and claims are used to
exercise the special properties of Private Companies “7”-“9” or, if
marked GRowTH, when launching Growth Corporations.

* Ore counters (48). These may be optionally used to mark ore and

transshipment pickups by spaceships (see “Let's Play!” Figure 9).

2.5 Terms

Phase: The six phases represent the asteroid belt’s economic develop-
ment over time and are tied to the purchase of spaceships during play.
Spaceships: These are used to run routes, making pickups to earn
money. Two types of spaceships are available during Phases I-V: fast
scouts, for exploration, and slower tugs, which have more cargo holds.
Private Company: These six companies, until shut down, pay income
to their owners each operating round. Private Companies don’t operate
spaceships (Space Transportation Co. flies the Probe if T'S/ is mactive).
Companies “0” and “7”—“9” may be sold to Corporations; ““7”—“9” each
allow an owning Corporation to place one extra counter on the map.
Independent Company: The six Independent Companies operate
spaceships, but do not have shares which are traded during stock rounds.
Eventually, all Independents must either form Growth Corporations or be
merged into the Asteroid League.

Corporation: The eight Corporations operate spaceships and are owned
jointly by their current shareholders. Corporations (except the Asteroid
League) enter play as either Public or Growth Corporations.

Public Corporation: A Public Corporation is launched by a player
setting its par value and buying its President’s certificate for twice this
amount. A Public Corporation is inactive and does not operate until 50%
of its shares have been bought. Once this occurs, it immediately receives
100% of its capitalization from the bank.

Growth Corporation: After Phase I (until the Asteroid League forms),
a Growth Corporation is /Jaunched during a stock turn by transferring the
assets of an Independent Company owned by the forming player into an
available Corporation in exchange for its President’s certificate. Growth
Corporations are immediately active, have a $10 initial stock price, a $67
par value and receive additional capital only as their shares are bought.
Asteroid League: This Corporation comes into play differently from
other Corporations and has different spaceship limits and capitalization.
President: The player owning the most stock in a Corporation. He or
she runs it during operating rounds, making all decisions for it.

Stock Price: Each Corporation, once launched, has a stock price for
which its shares can be sold into and bought from the Stock Market.
This price, unlike the Corporation’s par value, changes during the game
and is marked by the position of a stock price marker on the stock mat.

3. SETUP

Unfold the board, placing the stock mat, bank and 10% shares near it and
the 20% President and Asteroid League shares, spaceships and Phase and
Round chits on it as indicated. Mix the tiles asteroid side down in the
box lid. Draw bid chits to determine seating and First Player. Hand out
bid chils and split $1800 evenly among players. Lay out the 12 Private
and Independent Co. certificates, with their TSJ shares and the Probe, in
numerical order (“O"—“11”"). Begin play by purchasing them (see 5.1).
Short Game: Remove $6,000 and 2 Phase II ships from the game.

4. SEQUENCE OF PLAY

Play proceeds by alternating Stock Rounds with two Operating Rounds.
Stock Round (see section 5)
Starting with the First Player, each player in turn cither passes or may
sell stock share(s) before possibly buying one stock certificate.
A stock round ends when all players pass in succession, Assign the First
Player card and adjust stock prices as needed for “all shares held”.
Operating Round (see sections 6-8)
1. Private Companies (and Fast Buck) receive income.
2. In numeric order, each active Independent Company operates.
3. In stock price order, cach active Corporation operates.
4. Remove all USED MINE markers. Flip over all used Claim markers.
Operating an Independent Company or Corporation
. Run routes for each owned Spaceship.
. Determine withholdings / dividends. Adjust stock price.
. May buy | or more Spaceships (Corporations must own at least 1).
. May buy Private Companics and/or exercise their special properties.
. May buy 1 Base.
. May buy | Refueling Station.
. May buy 1-2 Claims (1-3 if the Asteroid League).

5. STOCK ROUNDS

During a Stock Round cach player in turn, starling with the First Player
and proceeding clockwise, may sell any number of shares, including
none, and then possibly buy one stock certificate or launch a Growth
Corporation. A player who does nothing is deemed to pass. The round
ends when all players consecutively pass. Then, reassign the First Player
card and adjust stock prices, if necessary, to reflect “all shares held”.
Notes: When placing or adjusting stock price markers, a marker entering
a given box of the stock price chart is placed below any markers already
in that box. Markers are never adjusted below the bottom or above the
top rows of the stock price chart; they instead stay where they are.

5.1 Buying Private and Independent Companies

All 12 Private and Independent Companies must be purchased before any
Corporation stock shares may be bought. Companies become available
for purchase in ascending numerical order (“0”-“11"). Once bought,
these Companies may not be sold to the Stock Market (unlike the 7S/
shares bought with COs “7’—“10"; these may be sold — but note 5.21).
The player whose turn it is has three options: pass, buy the currently
available Private or Independent Company (possibly paying more than
the face price if desired (sce 5.14)) or place a (supported) bid on any one
Private or Independent Company not yet available for purchase.

5.11 The first bid on any given certificate must equal or exceed its
printed bid price. Each subsequent bid must exceed the previous bid on
the certificate by at least $5. Use bid chits to mark players’ pending bids.
5.12 A player must have sufficient unallocated cash to support a given
bid. Cash previously allocated towards a bid becomes unallocated once a
higher bid has been placed on that certificate.

When a certificate becomes available (once the previous one is sold), if it
has only one pending bid on it, it is immediately sold to that player for
the amount bid. If several players have pending bids on it, an auction is
held to determine its buyer and sale price. Proceeding clockwise from
the player with the highest pending bid, each involved player must either
drop out or place a bid on it at least $5 higher than the last amount bid.
5.13 If all players consecutively pass, ending the Stock Round before all
Independent and Private Companies are sold, resolve all pending bids as
if those certificates, in order, had become available.

5.14 When an Independent Company is purchased, it receives as its
starting capital $100 plus 1/2 of any amount above $100 for which it was
purchased (round any fraction down). Place this cash in ils treasury.
Important: Throughout the game, cash belonging to players must be
kept separate from cash held by Companies and Corporations in their
treasuries. Independent Company owners and Corporation Presidents
may not mix the funds they control with their own cash on hand.

5.2 Selling Stock

A player may scll any number of stock shares on his or her turn, subject
to the limits below. The player receives the current stock price for each
share sold, places the stock certificates in the Stock Market and adjusts
the stock price for each Corporation in which share(s) were sold down-
wards one box (even if the player sold more than one stock share of a
given Corporation during that stock sale).

ADM Wyre

§.21 Only the current President may sell a Corporation’s stock before it
has operated during at least one operating round.
§.22 A player may both sell and buy stock in a single player turn but
this must occur in this order — all sales take place before any purchase.
5,23 A sale by a Corporation President which reduces that player’s hold-
ings in the Corporation below another player (who holds at Icast 20% of
its shares) results in a Presidency change. The player holding the highest
percentage, resolving ties clockwise, receives the “President” certificate
in exchange for two 10% shares of stock.
§.24 No more than 50% of a given Corporation’s shares may be sold to
the Stock Market. A President’s certificate may never enter the Stock
Market. A sale resulting in a Presidency change such that these rules are
obeyed after the sale is complete is allowed.
Example: The President of 7S7 holds 20%, two other players each
hold 20% and 40% is in the Stock Market. The President may scll
one 7S/ share, even though the only TS/ certificate held by that
player is the 20% President’s certificate. Aftcr the sale, the first
player clockwise from the selling player will hold the 7S/
President’s certificate, five 10% TS/ shares will be in the Stock
Market and the previous TS/ President will hold one 10% 7'S/ share.

5.3 Buying Stock / Launching Corporations

A player may only buy one share certificate at a time, either from a share
box or the Stock Market. Each certificate represents a 10% stock share,
except for President certificates which represent 2 shares or 20%. The
President’s certificate of a given Corporation must be held before any of
its 10% shares may be bought. Shares are bought from the share boxes at
par value. Public Corporations’ par values, except for TS7, are set by the
player purchasing its President’s certificate. TS/’s par is $100 ($67 in the
Short Game). Growth Corporations have a $67 par value. The As/eroid
League has a $125 par value. Shares enter the Stock Market only when
sold by players. A share in the Stock Market is bought by paying the
stock price of that Corporation (which usually differs from its par value).
Only shares in available Corporations may be bought. Trans-Space, Inc.
shares and the Resources Unlimited President certificate may not be
bought until all the Private and Independent Companies have been
purchased. Once Resources Unlimited has been launched, all three of
Lunar Enterprises, Mars Mining, and Venus Prospectors are available.
After these Corporations launch, then, in the Full Game only, Outer
Planet Consortium and Ring Construction Corp. both become available.
§.31 No player may voluntarily own more than 60% of a Corporation’s
stock. A player who does so involuntarily (due to a forced merger into
the Asteroid League) must comply on his or her next stock turn.

5.32 If, due to a purchase or merger, a player owns a greater stock
percentage of a Corporation than its current President, then that player
becomes President, swapping two shares of stock with the previous
President to obtain the President’s stock certificate.

5.33 Once a player sells a share in a given Corporation, he or she may
not purchase shares in that Corporation until the next stock round.
Certificate Limit. Each player may only hold a fixed number of stock
certificates depending on the number of players in the game (see chart).
When computing how many certificates a player holds, each Private
Company, Independent Company and 20% President certificate counts as
one certificate. Any Private or Independent Company certificates owned
by Corporations do not count against their Presidents’ certificate limits.
5.34 A player may not buy stock in excess of this certificate limit (even
if doing so would produce a Presidency change that would then result in
that player not exceeding the certificate limit).

5.35 A player who involuntarily exceeds the certificate limit (due to a
change in Presidency) must comply on his or her next Stock turn.
Launching a Public Corporation

A Public Corporation is launched by a player establishing its par value
and purchasing an available President’s Certificate at twice that amount,
placing its par value marker in the appropriate box on the stock mat and
ils stock price marker in the matching box of the stock price track. Place
its 10% stock shares in the Public Corporation share box.

5.36 A Public Corporation becomes active once 50% of its shares have
been purchased. Its President then takes its counters and mat, receiving
10 times the Corporation’s par value from the bank to pul in its treasury.
Launching a Growth Corporation

Growth Corporations may only be /aunched in game Phases II and II,
before the Asteroid League forms. A Growth Corporation is launched by
a player who owns an Independent Company turning it in for the
President’s share of an available Corporation during that player’s turn of
a Stock Round. Doing so counts as that player’s stock purchase that
turn. Remove the Independent Company from the game, giving its cash,
spaceships and certificate to the Corporation. Place its extra GROWTH
base marker on the Independent’s base and replace (for free) any placed
claims with claims belonging to the Corporation. Mark its par value of
$67 and place its stock price marker in the $10 box of the stock price
chart. Move its 10% shares to the Growth Corporation share box, shift-
ing one Asteroid League share from the trade-in box to the League share
box. The new Corporation immediately becomes active, but reccives no
money from the bank. When its shares are purchased from the Growth
Corporation share box, that money goes to its treasury, not to the bank.

5.4 Passing
A player may pass instead of selling and/or buying any stock. Unless all

players consecutively pass to end the Stack Round, a player who passes
may sell and buy stock on his or her next turn normally.

5.5 Ending a Stock Round

When all players consecutively pass, the First Player card is given to the
player to the left of the last player to sell or buy a certificate on his or her
turn (ignoring any purchases due to pending bids, see 5.13). That player
will be the first player to take a turn in the next Stock Round.

All Shares Held: At the end of a Stock Round, all Corporations whose
shares are 100% held by players adjust their stock markers in order up
one box (unless already at the chart top). Note that the Asteroid League’s
price may not rise due to this if some of its shares are in the trade-in box.

6. OPERATING ROUNDS

The following four steps constitute an Operating Round and are
performed in order twice before starting a new Stock Round:

Private Companies receive Income

The current owner (either a player or Corporation) of each active Private
Company receives its printed income from the bank. In addition, Fast
Buck’ s Company (or owning Corporation) adds $15 to its treasury.
Independent Companies Operate

Each Independent Company in order (“1”—“6”) operates. Then, if 7S/
isn’t active yet, the owner of the Space Transportation Private Company
flies the TSI Probe from the TS/ Base, receiving its exploration bonuses.
Corporations Operate

Each Growth and active Public Corporation operates once in stock price
order (highest to lowest value, with Corporations whose stock markers
are in the same box operating in top to bottom order). Note: This order
may change during an operating round due to forced sales (see 7.38).
Remove all USep Mine chits and flip over all used Claim markers

A given mine may only be used once per Operating Round. This is
marked with Usb MINE chits or flipped over claim markers, which are
removed or flipped face up at the end of each Operating Round.

7. OPERATIONS
7.1 Run Routes

Each spaceship owned by the operating Company or Corporation may
run one route per operating round, expending movement points and
making pickups sequentially hex by hex up to the limits of its movement
allowance and cargo holds (see Ler’s Play! Figures 6 and 9).

A route is a series of adjacent hexes starting from a base belonging to the
operating Company or Corporation. To earn money, a route’s pickups
must be delivered by ending that route at any base or a transshipment
point. If not, the spaceship is simply exploring; its pickups are worth
nothing and may not be kept for future rounds. Note: Where a ship ends
its route has no effect on which base it may start from in the next round.
7.11 A route may both begin and end at the same base. More than one
spaceship may begin or end its movement at a given base each round.

It costs one movement point to enter a hex. It costs one additional
movement point to explore a hex by drawing a tile to discover what’s
there. The owning Company or Corporation receives $10 directly into
its treasury for each hex explored by its ships. Alternatively, an unex-
plored hex may be passed through without exploring it.

A spaceship’s remaining movement points are increased cither by 3 or up
to its starting movement allowance, whichever total is smaller, each time
it visits a different refueling station belonging to its Corporation.

7.12 A given refueling station may be visited once per operating round
by each spaceship belonging to its Corporation that enters its hex.

A spaceship may make as many pickups along its movement path as it
has cargo holds. Making pickups costs no movement points. Making
both pickups at an asteroid with two mines takes two empty cargo holds.
Only one pickup may be made at cach mine per Operating Round. Mark
ore pickups at unclaimed mines by placing Usep Mine chits. Pickups
may be made at unused and unclaimed mines, unused mines claimed by
the operating Company or Corporation, or, if ending ils route there, al a
transshipment point (the last models “delivering the mail”). Note that a
routc may end at a transshipment point without making a pickup there.
713 Once a cargo hold has been assigned to a given pickup, its cargo
may not be jettisoned to make a different pickup.

7.14 Transshipment points may be used multiple times for pickups
during an Operating Round by different spaceships ending routes there.
A route’s value is the total of each pickup delivered on the route plus any
bonuses listed on its Corporation mat, assigned pilot or ending base hex.
Exploration bonuses do not count towards this total. All delivery
bonuses are cumulative. Note: Base hex bonuses for certain ore types are
available to all Company or Corporation ships ending their routes there.
Pilots: The six Independents serve as pilots for all spaceships owned by
their Companies. When an Independent launches a Growth Corporation
or merges into the Asteroid League, its pilot certificate is placed in that
Corporation (until removed in Phase V). In the case of Fast Buck, the
owning Corporation receives $15 in its treasury when Private Companies
are paid. The other Independents may each be assigned as a pilot to one
(different) spaceship belonging to the owning Corporation each operating
round, That spaceship, when moved, receives that Independent’s bonus
(extra movement, additional tile draw and/or route pickup bonus).

7.2 Earnings, Dividends and Stock Adjustments

A Company or Corporation’s earnings in an Operating Round is the sum
of its routes’ values. Exploration payments and Private Company (and
fast Buck) income do not count towards this total.

Independent Company earnings may either be split evenly between the
owner and the Independent Company’s treasury or retained completely
in the Independent Company’s treasury as its owner wishes.

Corporate earnings may either be retained in its treasury or paid out or
partially paid out as dividends to its shareholders as its President wishes:

« Retained earnings are placed in the Corporate treasury. The stock
price is adjusted /e/t one box (or down one box if it can’t be moved left).

« Paid out earnings are divided by 10 and this amount is paid per share
to each shareholder. The Corporation’s treasury receives this amount for
each of its shares in the Stock Market, Asteroid League trade-in box or
Growth Corporation share box (but not for any of its shares in the Public
Corporation share box). Adjust the stock price right two boxes (or up
one box and right one box if it can’t be moved right two boxes).

* To pay partial dividends, divide total earnings by two. Round this
amount down to the nearest $10; retain it in the Corporation’s treasury.
Divide the remainder by 10 and pay it to shareholders as above. Adjust
the stock price right one box (or up one box if it can’t be moved right).

Example: A Corporation earns $250 in an operating round and its

President elects to pay partial dividends. $120 is retained in the

Corporation’s treasury and $13 per share is paid to its shareholders.
7.21 An active Corporation (see 5.36) with zero earnings shifts its stock
price left one box (or down one box if it can’t be moved left).

7.3. Purchasing Spaceships

An Independent Company or Corporation may, using only its own funds,
purchase spaceship(s) from the bank at list price or, after Phase I, from
Companies or Corporations at any agreed upon price not less than $1.

In Phases V and VI, Phase III-V spaceships may be upgraded for $700
each into Phase VI ships, removing the old ship cards from the game.
Each spaceship purchase / upgrade is performed separately, one at a time.
Phase J-V spaceships are divided into two types, scouts and tugs, each
printed on opposite sides of the same certificate and generally costing
different amounts. Phase VI spaceships are all the same type: freighters.
7.31 When buying Phase I-V spaceships from the bank, either type
may be bought. Once purchased, a ship’s type may not be changed.

7.32 No spaceships of the next game phase may be purchased until all
spaceships of the current phase have been bought. Exception: Phase VI
ships may be purchased once one Phase V spaceship has been bought.
Spaceship Limits: The number of spaceships which a Corporation or
Company may own varies with the current game phase (see phase chart).
7.33 Spaceships may not be voluntarily turned in or sold to the bank.
7.34 Extra ships may not be bought even if this would trigger a change
of game phase that would, by rendering some spaceships obsolete, result
in that Company or Corporation complying with the spaceship limit.

7.35 If, due to a change in game phase, a Company or Corporation owns
more spaceships than it is entitled to, it must immediately comply by
turing in excess spaceships of its choice to the bank (for no money).
7.36 Returned ship certificates may be purchased again (as either ship
type) and don’t affect the current game phase or spaceship availability.
7.37 No Company or Corporation may purchase the Asteroid League’s
last spaceship (reducing its number of spaceships to zero).

Mandatory Spaceship Purchase

A Corporation must buy a spaceship if it has none when it operates. If
it is unable to buy one from another Corporation, Company or the bank
with its own funds, it must buy the earliest spaceship available (of either
type) from the bank using all of its treasury with the remainder (only)
coming from its President’s cash on hand.

7.38 A President who doesn’t have the needed cash must raise it by sell-
ing stock shares. The President may sell any shares, obeying all rules for
doing so (including resolving Presidency changes), except for shares
which would cause a Presidency change in the Corporation currently
operating. (Note that these sales may also alter the order in which
Corporations slill to go operate that round.) Once the amount needed has
been raised, no further sales may be made. If, after making all possible
sales, the President hasn’t raised the required amount, then that player is
bankrupt and the game ends immediately (see section 9).

7.39 An Independent Company is not required to own a spaceship until
the Asteroid League forms. Afterwards, an Independent Company oper-
ating without a spaceship must either purchase one, using only its own
funds, or merge into the Asteroid League (without its owner receiving '/2
of the Independent Company’s treasury in the Full Game, see 8.11).

7.4 Other Purchases

In Phases II-IV a Corporation, using only its own funds, may purchase
one or more of the Private Companies “0” or “7°— “9” from their owning
players (with their consent) during an operating round. The amount paid
tor each must be at least $1 and no greater than its printed bid valuc.
Private Companies ““7”—“9”, if owned by a Corporation, may place one
counter (a base, refueling station or claim, respectively) for free during
the course of the game, using the extra black-edged markers supplied for
this. Doing so does not result in the Private Company being shut down.
A Corporation, using only its own funds, may purchase and place up to
one base, one refueling station and two claims per round (exception: the
Asteroid League may placc up to three claims per round). These are in
addition to any markers placed due to using a Private Company’s special
property (see above) or bought from Independent Companies (see 7.45).

An Independent Company may not purchase Private Companics, bases
or refueling stations. It may, using only its own funds, purchase and
place either one or both of its two claims during a single round.

A given hex is within range for placing a base, refueling station or claim
if at least one of that Company or Corporation’s spaceships could move
there, factoring in any movement bonuses from already placed refueling
stations. A Company without spaceships can not place claims.

7.41 A basc may be placed for $50 (exception: Mars Mining pays only
$25) on any explored asteroid tile that doesn’t already contain a claim
within range of the placing Corporation. Flip the tile over before placing
the base marker on it.

7.42 A refueling station may be placed for $50 (exceptions: Venus
Prospectors pays only $25; Outer Planet Consortium places its first one
(only) for free) on any base within range of the placing Corporation that
doesn’t already contain a refueling station (even if that base is not owned
by the Corporation placing the refueling station).

7.43 Claims may be placed on any unclaimed mine (possibly with a
UsepD MINE chit on it) within range of the placing Corporation or
Company. Placing the first claim in a round costs $60 (cxccption:
Resources Unlimited places its first claim each round for free). Placing
a second claim in one round costs $100 (exception: the Asteroid
League’s second claim costs $75; its third one costs $100).

7.44 Corporations have a limited number of bases, refueling stations and
claims. Once placed, they may not be transferred or removed.

7.45 After Phase I. a Corporation may buy Independent Company claims
(with their owners’ consent) for $60 each. They necd not be within range
of the purchasing Corporation. Return an Independent’s claim marker to
it for reuse after replacing it with one of the Corporation’s claim markers.

y

8. GAME PHASES / ASTEROID LEAGUE

There are six game phases. A phase begins once a spaceship belonging
to it has been bought. Its effects (see charts) take place immediately in
the order listed and persist until altered by a later phase.

The Asteroid League is a special Corporation that comes into cxistence
during either Phase II or IV. It is formed by the owner of Asteroid
Export Company launching it, taking the President’s certificate of the
Asteroid League. The owner has the option to do this immediately when
Phase III begins. If that player doesn’t exercise this option then, he or
she may choose to exercise it at the beginning of each Operating or Stock
Round until Phase IV begins (when the League must be formed).

The Asteroid League has an initial capitalization of $250 and a $125 par
value. The Asteroid Export Company is retained by its owner until the
League acquires a spaceship (either by purchase or by an Independent
merging into it); then it is removed. Place its stock price marker in the
$125 box of the stock price chart and transfer its stock from the Asteroid
League box to the Growth Corporation share box. Draw a base tile and
place it and a base marker on its reserved map hex. Note that doing this
prevents spaceships from using that hex for transshipment pickups.

Once the Asteroid League forms, each Independent, in clockwise order
starting with the Asteroid League President, may immediately join it, its
owner receiving */2 of its treasury cash (round down the amount left in the
treasury) and a 10% Asteroid League share from the trade-in box (this
may produce a Presidency change as per 5.32). Owners who don’t merge
at this point may alter their choice at the start of each Operating (but not
Stock) Round (again, in clockwise order starting with the current
Asteroid League President). Independent Companies must merge upon
failing to purchase a spaceship (see 7.39) or when Phase V begins.

8.11 An owner whose Independent merges after the Asteroid League’s
initial formation receives '/2 of the Independent’s cash only in the Full
Game and only if it still has a spaceship when it joins, (Note: Phase II
ships go obsolete before Independents must join the League in Phase V.)
When an Independent merges, remove it from the game. Give its pilot
certificate, spaceship and treasury cash (after any final payment) to the
Asteroid League and replace (at no cost) its base and any placed claims
with a base marker and claims belonging to the Asteroid League.

8.12 The Asteroid League may not place and must reserve one base and
two claims for each remaining Independent which hasn’t merged into it.
8.13 After each merger, if the Asteroid League has morc spaceships than
allowed, it must return its excess ships to the bank; however, it may
return any of its spaceships, not just the one(s) most recently received.
8.14 The Asteroid League operates the round it forms if no Corporation
has begun to operate from a stock price of $124 or less when the League
is formed. All spaceships, pilots or claims used earlier that round by
Independents that joined the League may not be used a second time by it.

9, ENDING THE GAME AND WINNING

The game may end in two ways, either immediately upon a player going
bankrupt (extremely rare) or, more typically, at the conclusion of the
round sequence (Stock Round plus two Operating Rounds) during which
the bank ran out of moncy.

Total each player’s cash on hand and stock portfolio value, based on the
final stock prices. (Add the printed values of Private Companies (only)
if the game ends before Phase V.) Ignore all assets held in Corporation
(or Company) treasuries. The player with the highest total wins.

When playing out the final Operating Rounds, players may find it useful
to “spreadsheet” them (see Let’s Play! Figure 10) or to each give a fixed
sum of money to the bank so that it can continue to make payments.

10. ETIQUETTE

Players may make deals; however, any deals are not binding. No assets
may be traded, given or sold among players, Companies or Corporations
except as explicitly set forth in the rules. Players’ current cash on hand
and stock holdings are open for examination, as are Company and
Corporations’ treasuries, spaceships, certificates and available counters.

Rules questions and comments should be sent to the address listed in
section 2 above. To expedile handling, supply a SASE and, if possible,
submit your questions phrased to accept “Yes” or “No” answers.

Rules © 1992-1995 Tom Lehmann, Fun & Game Design; and Jim Hlavaty, Spectrum Game Design.
2038

TYCOONS OF THE ASTEROID BELT

Player and Design Notes & Charts
PLAYER NOTES

2038 constantly presents its players with decisions whose effects
are both far-reaching and interact with other players’ actions. This,
plus its stock / operations “game-within-a-game” style, produces
interesting repeated play (since a game can develop many ways),
but may make 2038 hard to grasp initially. Here are some tips:

* Perceptions matter. If players decide that a given Corporation is
a good investment and buy it, its price will rise due to being all sold
out and won't drop due to sales. It then is a good investment. In
contrast, if players sour on and sell a stock bought earlier, then its
stock price will fall, regardless of the Corporation's true value.

* Group actions affect the game. For example, during the first two
operating rounds, players may choose to buy all the Phase | ships
plus a Phase II spaceship. This allows Growth Corporations to start
in the second stock round. Similarly, if several Independents join
the Asteroid League when it forms, their spaceships and claims will
quickly make the League quite powerful; if they instead hold off
merging until Phase V, it will be considerably weaker. Act in your
best interests. Recognizing when you should “go along” with group
actions — and when you shouldn't — is often overlooked.

* Remember your goals. You are an investor, seeking to hold the
best stock portfolio and most cash when the game ends. Running
a Corporation well is one means to this, it is not the end. Players
who focus solely on preparing future routes for their Corporations
usually lose. However, neglecting your company’s routes is also
wrong. Typically, the cost of not developing good routes is about
$10-30 per share per round. Over six rounds, in a Corporation you
hold 60% of, this can easily total $600. Thus, it may be worth losing
a dividend payment and one or two squares of its final stock value
to raise cash to develop its routes. You must strike a balance
between short and long term gains.

« Manage your portfolio. Players’ end-game wealth comes from
two major sources: dividends and stock appreciation. Higher priced
stocks yield the best appreciation once you're at the certificate limit.
If not, you may do better with two lower priced shares even if they
pay smaller dividends. You must also judge whether a Corporation
is going to pay out its dividends in full. Full dividends from one with
less developed routes are usually worth more than half dividends
from another, even if the latter's routes are much better.

* Manage your portfolio mix. It is not enough to buy valuable
stock and run your companies well if your opponents hold the same
shares and more. Try to eventually own 60% in Corporations you
control. Contrive to “share in the wealth” by buying shares in other
well-run companies, subject to the safety considerations discussed
below. Be wary of splitting a stock equally between you and its
President, since that player may transfer its assets to another one
(where he or she has a favorable stock split). By holding 30-40% in
two profitable Corporations (whose Presidents each own 60%) as
well as 60% of your own Corporation (assuming it is profitable), you
will often win due to a superior overall mix of stock shares.

Spaceship Trouble. It is important to understand that being
President of a Corporation is both an advantage (you control its
decisions) and a potential liability. If a Corporation has no ships nor
the cash to buy one from the Bank (and is unable to buy one from
another Corporation or Independent), then its President must
supply the cash needed to buy one. This liability remains until it
acquires a permanent spaceship — and may reappear if it then
allows another Corporation to buy its permanent ship.

Transfer of Corporations. Even though Presidencies may not
change hands very often during a game, the threat of them chang-
ing hands does affect play. While many Corporate assets can’t be

transferred, two important ones — spaceships and cash — can be.
Cash can be sent to investors by buying Private Companies “0” and
“7’—"9” for list price. Among Corporations (and Independents), cash
can be transferred via spaceship purchases. A Corporation could
spend its cash either to purchase a soon-to-be-obsolete ship from
another Corporation or to buy new ships from the Bank, which it
then sells for $1 apiece. In either case, if its President later sells
off, giving the Presidency to another player, that player will have
strengthened the Corporation receiving the cash or spaceships at
the expense of the “looted” Corporation’s new President (who will
soon have to come up with the cash to acquire a spaceship).

Stripping a Corporation. Even when it isn't possible to dump a
Corporation, a President can strip it by transferring out its cash and
ships prior to selling all but 20% of its shares to the Stock Market to
generate investment funds. If another player buys these shares,
the first player then transfers the Presidency. If not, the player
remains President (the “extra” certificate is valuable when the
certificate limit becomes relevant), and pays full dividends. Since
the Corporation has Stock Market shares, some of this money goes
into its treasury. Once the Corporation’s financial health is restored,
its President then buys back shares to continue to contro! it.

A variation, if a President can’t shift assets to a second Corporation
or Independent, is to buy many spaceships and other assets before
selling down to 20%. This removes cash needed for later ship
purchases, creating a long-term liability. However, because the
Corporation is left with good short-term prospects, this stratagem
can fail if a player, perhaps President of a Corporation with extra
cash, is willing to take it over. Or, several players might each buy
one share (for short term gains without risk), thus removing stock
from the Stock Market which was supposed to provide the
Corporation with cash. However, this tactic in turn reduces the
President's incentive to pay full dividends (even though not paying
out hurts the President more in the short term), which makes that
stock less attractive to buy... Note how player actions can interact.

Rolling Over Cash. Stripping Corporations is useful only if the
investor doing so can use the cash generated to create profits
larger than the liabilities incurred. One method is to launch a Public
Corporation. This effectively leverages the cash pulled out of the
stripped Corporation (since the new one is capitalized at twice this
amount). This “extra” cash can then be transferred back to the
stripped one, giving the player control of two, reasonably healthy
Corporations. This tactic, however, presupposes that a Corporation
is still available to launch. Since Growth Corporations can launch
after Phase | — without requiring any funds — all Corporations
might well be in play. If so, and no highly profitable shares remain
to invest in, then stripping tactics become far less useful.

One way to avoid having a Corporation dumped on you is to never
buy a second share in one you don’t control. However, a player
who correctly gauges when it isn’t worthwhile for a President to
dump a profitable Corporation and then buys additional shares in it
will often beat players unwilling to take this risk. The decision to
dump or strip a Corporation is complex and depends on many
factors, including which player is currently in line to hold the First
Player card (since a player who can sell shares next round before a
President can do so is usually safe — but not always, due to forced
sales — from having a Corporation dumped upon him or her).

Spaceship Management and Route Development. These are
key to earning high dividends. When choosing between tugs and
scouts, bear in mind that more cargo holds are better — once a
route is developed — but that extra movement, particularly when
augmented by strategically placed refueling stations, allows ships
not only to explore but also to end their routes at bases paying ore
bonuses. This suggests that one should buy a scout first, when
building routes, followed by tugs in later game phases.

Plan for the future by deciding whether your Corporation ultimately
is going to own one or two spaceships. If it will only own one, plac-
ing claims “aimed” at different bonus paying bases (attractive during
the midgame when operating several ships) is usually wrong.
Similarly, if you can foresee that your Corporation will end up
running, say, a Phase IV 6/5, you should concentrate on getting
claims on five high valued, well situated mines in order to be
competitive with Corporations ending with Phase VI 9/7s. These
points are particularly valid when your Corporation doesn’t have
many claims in its counter mix. If so, its potential final route value
will be reduced by each claim placed solely for midgame use.

When building a route that ends at a base that pays ore bonuses,
place a new base to start from if this forms a straight path instead
of a less efficient circular one. Bases can also be used to place
refueling stations where needed. You will need to decide whether
to place one claim per round for $60 or two for $160 (effectively
accelerating the second claim's placement for $40). If operating in
a crowded area, you may need to claim mines rapidly. This is
especially true if a Growth Corporation “relocates” to its former
Independent’s base (e.g. Lucky becoming Lunar Enterprises,
running routes to the initial RCC base). Generally, accelerating
claims increases stock dividends at the Corporation’s expense.
However, a Corporation with many shares in the Growth box or
Stock Market may make money by accelerating its claims multiple
rounds. For example, a Corporation placing three claims 2-1-0 for
$220 over three rounds pays $40 more to accelerate a Nickel claim
two rounds (compared to a $180 1-1-1 placement). If it has seven
shares in the Growth box and pays out full for two rounds, it makes
$16 (+$4/share x 7 shares x 2 rounds = $56 — $40 cost).

lf your Corporation starts late (or has many claims and expects to
eventually run two spaceships), you will need to place your claims
even more rapidly. Already placed claims can be bought from an
Independent for $60 apiece. In one round, a Corporation doing this
can place three claims for $180 or four for $280. For a cost of $40
more, the Independent could then replace both its claims in the
next round, allowing this process to be repeated. Note, however,
that the Independent is losing the use of its claims while doing so.

During the midgame, Corporations must often choose between
saving cash or buying another spaceship or more claims. Being
caught without ships (due to older ones going obsolete) is costly.
Beyond this, an extra ship can be valuable when operating in an
area containing unused Ice mines (these pay well without being
claimed). However, operating at its spaceship limit may leave a
Corporation unable to buy one of the less costly permanent ships
when they become available (they tend to be bought quickly). To
avoid this, keep an open spaceship “slot” and enough cash so that
a single round of withholding enables the Corporation to pay for it.
Timing this is important since this cash could buy claims to improve
current routes, thus enabling the Corporation to save more later by
withholding a larger sum. When saving, bear in mind that a higher
stock price results by paying partial dividends twice instead of
paying out once in full and then withholding completely.

Initial Spaceship Purchases. During the first two operating
rounds, spaceship decisions are both important and determine how
quickly the game advances to Phase II. For the Independents,
especially Drill Hound and Ore Crusher, buying a 3/2 tug is risky
but potentially lucrative. Since a 3/2 can only explore one hex, if
the tile it draws has two valuable mines, its owner gains relative to
other players. However, if the tile only has one mine, its owner falls
behind. (This risk is less for other Independents since they each
have a nearby transshipment point.)

Buying a 5/1 scout allows an Independent to “cherry pick” by
exploring twice, usually making a pickup at the best mine. Its extra
movement also enables it to end its route at a bonus paying base.
This, plus the $20 exploration bonus it receives, will usually enable
an Independent to place a claim if it doesn’t pay out. This keeps it
competitive with 3/2 ships that found good, but not great, mines.
(To ensure that an Independent can afford a claim, even with poor
exploration, its owner may wish to place an extra $10 or so in it
during the initial auction.) The 5/1’s true advantage is not safety,
however, but that it prepares future routes by finding mines which
can be claimed in advance, enabling a second ship (a Phase | 3/2
or a Phase 1] 4/3) to run for lots of money immediately.

After each Independent buys a ship, TS/ flies its Probe and can buy
up to three spaceships. Buying two ships gives it the option, if two
Independents buy a second ship during the second round, of then

buying the first Phase Il spaceship. This makes its Probe obsolete,
allowing it to buy another Phase II ship. TS/ can then purchase a
refueling station and possibly transfer cash by buying a Private
Company from its President. Entering Phase II, however, allows
other players to form Growth Corporations in the next stock round;
this may — or may not — be in the TS/ President’s best interest.

Independents. Each Independent can be used to either:

* Produce cash by paying dividends as long as possible before

finally joining the Asteroid League to yield one last payment.

* Start a Growth Corporation.

* Aid a Corporation by selling it claims and/or buying its ships.

* Assist the Asteroid League by merging into it when it forms.
It is difficult to combine these options. For example, selling claims
to assist a Corporation reduces that Independent's route value and
earnings. Similarly, buying a soon-to-be obsolete spaceship from a
Corporation, to transfer cash and create a “slot” so the Corporation
can buy a newer ship, will soon leave the Independent without one.

Merging into the Asteroid League early for a share is rarely worth-
while. This isn’t true if you hold several shares and especially if its
President controls another Corporation. Then, if Independents with
placed claims don’t join to provide it with good routes and ships, its
President will simply transfer the League's cash to his or her other
Corporation, making your League shares far less valuable.

Corporation Choice. Starting a Public Corporation gives it lots of
cash (and may allow its founder to leverage cash efficiently), but its
higher stock price may get driven down by other players. Growth
Corporations are cheap to launch but have little capital and a $10
initial stock price; to catch up to Public Corporations, they must pay
full dividends while building their routes, which keeps them cash
poor. Since they can ultimately generate more capital than Public
ones (due to their Growth box shares), their Presidents should only
buy shares as extra capital is needed. Growth Corporations tend to
operate last; thus their ships often run fewer times before going
obsolete. Be wary of starting one if it would own just Phase | ships!

The Short Game. Game tempo, instead of long term liabilities and
development, underlies this game since player actions determine
whether the game ends in Phase Il, Ill or, possibly, IV. If it ends in
Phase II, Independents that don’t form Growth Corporations are
worth nothing (unlike Private COs held by players). However, if
Phase III occurs then the Asteroid League usually forms, allowing
Independents to join it and give their owners a valuable stock share
plus some cash. This may not be worth the 20% certificate earned
for starting a Growth Corporation, depending on how many rounds
Phase II lasts. If Phase | is prolonged, with investors receiving lots
of cash, several Public Corporations may emerge instead.

DESIGN NOTES

Devotees of the “18xx’ series of railroad games, all loosely based
on 1829 by Francis Tresham, will recognize 2038 as belonging to
the same intellectual lineage, even though almost every detail of
play is different.

Completely absent is the series’ railroad tile mix — there are no
tracks in space. The forging of territorial links between cities is
replaced by the exploration, development and claiming of mines.
Growth Corporations alter the game’s financial aspects as well by
linking Independents to the larger, publicly traded Corporations.

Our primary goals when developing 2038 were to produce a game
that was novel, fun to play and which would challenge good players
by providing them interesting choices at every juncture.

The Storyline

Choosing a science fiction milieu freed us from having to drive the
game towards an historical outcome. 2038's underlying “story” is
not intended as a realistic simulation of how asteroids might be
mined. Instead, it hearkens back to science fiction of the ’50s in
which space colonies exist and companies, with hardy indepen-
dents in the vanguard, are racing to exploit the asteroid belt.
Mining involves extracting and delivering ore to “long-haul” corpora-
tions, represented by the bases starting on the map, to be shipped
to other planets. Initially, these companies buy ore from the
Independents. Eventually, they each launch a subsidiary to mine
the belt directly; first Earth-based TS/, then RU, etc. Base delivery
bonuses stem from different end-use demands while Independent
and Corporate bonuses represent varying personnel expertise.

Each operating round represents a fixed amount of time, with
spaceships being able to move farther and process more ore per
round as technology improves. Processing and loading ore takes
both time and consumables (fuel, oxygen, etc.), thus ships are not
allowed to jettison their cargo and reload during one round nor run
routes spanning multiple rounds. Ships returning to base (between
rounds) carry not only fuel and supplies for their next runs but also
supplies needed to maintain base personnel. Each base is
assumed to be quite small — thus, only one refueling station is
permitted per base to represent both the limited docking space
available and the difficulty of supplying enough fuel to the station
during return trips to permit large amounts of refueling to take place.

Transshipment points represent local deliveries to military and
scientific facilities. These take fuel and time and are permitted only
at the end of a route, while a ship’s cargo is also being unloaded.
Survey Board payments encourage further exploration. Claims are
only recognized by the Board if they improve a mine. Thus, claims
both increase a mine’s value and grant ownership rights.

Eventually, settlers begin to agitate against the exploitation of “their”
resources by outsiders. This leads to the creation of the Asteroid
League and, later, the requirement that all remaining Independents
merge into it. The Independents who form Growth Corporations are
eventually dwarfed by their creations and forced to retire.

Game Mechanics

The Independents ensure that most players will have some
company to run during early rounds. (We want players to launch
Corporations for financial reasons, not out of boredom!) The initial
companies are auctioned off to avoid standard openings based on
seating order and to provide a self-balancing element to the game.
Their special abilities add flavor, giving each Independent a differ-
ent feel during operations, and make for interesting initial auctions.

Operations emphasize both exploration, via the different ore types,
and development, centered around the dual nature of claims. The
two types of spaceships lead to different approaches: exploration,
aimed at finding the best mines for future routes, versus maximizing
short-term earnings by flying extra cargo holds and developing the
mines around one’s base. The exploration payment balances these
two options while bases, refueling stations and the various delivery
bonuses add spatial and cost considerations to route development.

Drawing asteroid tiles randomly during exploration ensures that
every game is different. Early versions included tiles with no mines.
These were eliminated since they resulted in too much variance.
Transshipment points were added to serve as “floors” to ensure that
no matter what tiles are drawn during the opening game, no
company would be hopelessly far behind the others.

One consequence of there being “no tracks in space” is that it is
difficult for a company to carve out its own “turf. The limits and
costs on placing more than one claim per round produces tension
when companies are competing for the same mines. Allowing
claims to transfer between Corporations was rejected because the
tactic of stripping a Corporation of all its claims, bases and refueling
stations, in addition to stripping its cash and spaceships, before
handing it to a minority shareholder was deemed too devastating.
Jacob Butcher's suggestion, that each Independent have a small
number of claims which may be purchased, allows an Independent
to help develop a Corporation’s routes without having to become it.

During playtesting it became clear that 2038 was a rich game in
terms of money flowing to investors while the high cost of ships,
claims, bases and refueling stations led to Corporations being cash
poor. The half dividend payment option enables Corporations to
raise cash and make progress on the stock chart. The value of
stock price appreciation is high to ensure a proper tension between
partial payouts to finance route improvements and full payouts to
maximize a Corporation’s final stock value.

For story reasons, we wanted the Independents to be absorbed into
some sort of “League”. However, we worried that such a large,
powerful Corporation would dominate the game, giving it a “forced”,
stereotyped feel. Growth Corporations, Steve Goodman’s sugges-
tion, provides both an alternate “destination” for the Independents
as well as an interesting player choice when forming corporations.
The resulting Asteroid League, while still powerful, doesn’t domi-
nate play and varies considerably from game to game.

Growth Corporations add a second theme of dynamic entrepre-
neurs who are eventually either dwarfed by the Corporations they
found or forced to merge into the Asteroid League, complementing
the primary theme of economic development. Pilots and the
“golden parachute” rule, whereby a player whose Independent joins
the League gets ‘/2 of the company’s money, reinforce this flavor.

Decreasing stock prices down and right along the stock mat diago-
nals ensures that Public Corporations tend to operate before
Growth ones. This advantage is tempered by the vulnerability of
Public Corporations’ stock. The prohibition on selling stock before a
company first operates (except by the President) and having two
operating phases per stock round reduces this by giving Public
Corporations a change to improve their investment value, thus
discouraging later round sales (as does the fact that it is valuable
for Corporations to have stock in the Stock Market). A President is
permitted to sell stock in a Corporation before it operates to permit
that player to defend from takeover other Presidencies held by less
than 50% of the Corporation’s stock, since being able to run Growth
Corporations in this manner /s intended.

The 60% limit on shares held in a Corporation makes it difficult for
the President of a Public one to put shares into the Stock Market
(which would blur the distinction between Public and Growth
Corporations) without risking loss of control. It also addresses a
“realism” issue — in real stock markets, investors rarely can buy up
ail of a corporation’s stock. The certificate limit, however, is strictly
artificial — it Keeps an early leader from running away with the
game and forces portfolio management.

Sales occur before purchases to prevent a player from selling
shares in a Corporation over several Stock turns in one round (to
drive its price down more than one box) without giving its President
a chance to sell off and give that player the Corporation. It also
gives investors in a Corporation prior to the current Stock Round
first crack at realizing any stock appreciation.

We hope players will find the choices and options 2038 presents as
interesting as we did during development. Enjoy.

GAME CREDITS:

Game Design: James Hlavaty and Tom Lehmann

Inspiration: Francis Tresham

Game Development: Tom Lehmann

Development Assistance: Jacob Butcher and Steven Goodman

Cover Painting: John Stoltenberg

Spaceship Illustrations: Jeff Sturgeon

Pilot Ilustrations: Michael McLaughin

Production, Graphics, Rules, Player and Design Notes: Tom Lehmann
Proofreading: Don Woods, Kris de Lisle, Steve Thomas & Hogan Long
Published in U.S.A. by Prism Games and TimJim Games under exclusive
license from Fun & Game Design and Spectrum Game Design.

Aspects of the 7829 game system used under license from Hartland
Trefoil Limited, of Northampton, England.

Playtesting and Advice:

Tain Alexander, Dimitri Ashling, Phil Baird, Tom Berendt, Bill Bold,
Ken Brown, Robert Buchanan, Jacob Butcher, Terry Cahalan, Mike
Calhoon, Greg Clayton, Richard Clyne, Andrew Conway, Andrew Cook,
Robert Cook, Don Daybell, Dave de Lisle, Kris de Lisle, David
desJardins, Dan Duval, Barry Eynon, Bill Gallager, Jay Gischer, Jeff
Glasson, Steven Goodman, Joe Gray, Charles Hoynowski, Anne
Huberman, Walter Jorgens, Colin Kameoka, Eric Karlson, Lukas
Kautzsch, Mark Kriguer, Andy Lange, Glenn Lehmann, Josh Lewis,
Hogan Long, Dane Maslen, Jim McDanold, James M. Moore, Timothy
Moore, Jesse Mundis, Gary Norton, Dietmar Pfohl, Larry Rosenberg,
Ron Sapolsky, Bruce Schlickenbernd, Jennifer Schlickenbernd, Michael
Schropl, Harald Sticling, Keith Swingruber, Ed Tecot, Steve Thomas,
Carolyn Wales, Rob Watkins, Don Woods, Eric Zakin

Special Thanks: Steve Thomas and Dan Duval

Company and Corporation Summary

# Private Co. Bid Income Shares Sellto Corp? Notes
0 Planetary Imports $ 50 $10 — yes —
7 Tunnel Systems 120 5 1TSI yes Corp. may place 1 free Base on any explored and unclaimed tile

10 Space Exploration Co. 1 0 TSI Pres es P . Remove cert. .
11 Asteroid Export Co. 180 30 (AL. Pres.) no May (must) start Asteroid League in Phase III (IV). Remove this
certificate after the Asteroid League acquires a spaceship.
# Independent Co. Delivery Bonus Notes
1 Fast Buck —_ $15 per operating round is placed into its treasury.
2 Ice Finder $ 10/Ice Must craw a second tile when exploring a hex if the first tile drawn has no Ice mines.

5 Torch _ Its spaceship(s) have +1 Movement allowance.
6 Lucky — Draws two tiles when exploring a hex and then chooses which tile to place.
Gp Corporation Delivery Bonus Bases Refuel Claims Notes
— Trans-Space, Inc. _ 1 3 10 Receives Probe as one of its four initially allowed spaceships.
A Resources Unlimited _ 1 1 12 Places its first claim each round for free (second one costs $100).
B Lunar Enterprises $ 10 / Nickel 1 2 9 = ;
3 6 costs $25 to pla =
3a 4 oe ng stations costs $25 to plac
im 10/Nickel 2 Be efueling station per game for f
ing Construction Corp. 10 / Nickel 2 2 8 —
— Asteroid League _ 7 4 15 May place 3 claims / round; 2nd claim costs $75 (8rd costs $100).
Its last spaceship may not be bought. $250 initial capital.
. Single Mines (50 / 106) Double Mines (56 / 106)
dite if Ni0 N20 130 140 150 R20 R30 R40 N20 130 140 R20 R30 R20 R30
a 7 (YY,
(106'tHes) N28 4 4 #2 2 40 2 2
Exploration Data Optional Rules
. ‘ —T . The four variants below were tried and discarded during playtesting.
Ore Mines Tiles Gees ef Hineing 1 tine Since group playing styles vary, some groups may wish to use them:
Type # % # % in2draws in 4 draws nan ere es
; > oi 2-Player Game. Each player starts with $900. The Certificate Limits
Nickel 92 57 72 68 90 % 99 % _ are 33 (Full Game) and 26 (Short Game). Play proceeds normally.
a a Differing perceptions among the players is an important aspect of
Rare 30 19 30 28 49 74 2038; this is largely lost with only two players.

N=20 52 32 44 42 66 89 Weaker 7S/ (Full Game). Reduce 7'S/'s initial stock price, par value
aoe cn : Ss and starting capital to (choose one): $89 / 890; 78 / 780: or 67 / 670.
R>20 18 14 18 17 31 53 Some players disliked TSY's “special status” in the Full Game (due to

Exploration & Route Description Average Explor. starting so early with so much capital). This rule reduces this effect.
# tile draws # cargo pickups Value Bonus Cutthroat Game. Play with only four Phase IV spaceships, not five.
1 1 $ 28 $ 10 This guarantees that at least one Corporation must buy a Phase VI

spaceship at full price (assuming the game enters Phase VI).
Stock Repurchases by Corporations. Modify the following rules:

: we i 5.3 All shares in the Growth Corporation share box (only) are bought
z 2 (pickupe 1st tile if $30+) 51 20 at the higher of that Corporation’s par or current stock value, placing
Average Explor. the full amount paid into the Corporation’s treasury.
Exploration & Route Description Value Bonus 7.2 A Corporation receives paid (or partially paid) earnings only for
1 draw, end@30 Transshipment, 2 pickups $58 $10 stock shares in the Growth Corporation box or Asteroid League trade-
1 (2 if nol) draw,+10 |, end@30T, 2 pickups 68 10 in box. It does not receive earnings for shares in the Stock Market.

7.4 At any point while operating, a Corporation (even if Public) may,
using only its own funds, buy its own shares from the Stock Market at
the current stock price, placing them in the Growth Corporation box.
Stock Market shares producing dividends abstracts stock repurchases
by corporations. This rule forces a corporation to expend capital to
earn these dividends but gives it stock appreciation as well (assuming
investors buy these shares later). The play effects — mainly TSI
1 double draw, end@30T, 2 pickups 64 10 collects less money during the midgame if its stock is sold into and left
2 double draws, end@30T, 1 pickup 40 20 in the Stock Market — didn’t seem worth the extra rules complexity.

DI
2 (2 if no R) draws, +10 R, +10 N, 1 pickup 39 20
1 draw, +10 N, 2 pickups 45 10
20

